The final method I want to show you is the reduce method,
that's an interesting one too.
This again takes function as an argument and now this function takes two arguments, the value as well
but before that, the total
and before I explain what this means, I'll quickly show what's the output of this method here,
so I'll get rid of new array here and here I will return something,
I will return total plus value.
Now for this to work correctly, I'll also get rid of all of this code, so that I'm only working with numbers
here for this example.
If I now hit run,
do you have an idea of what might be the result of this?
I get 10 and then you see the original array wasn't changed.
So why do I get 10? Reduce reduces an array to a single value and with the function we pass here, we
specify the logic by which this array should be reduced.
So here for example, by adding all the values up because four plus three plus two plus one is 10.
So this will automatically pass in the current total result, this is a recursive function so it's called
over and over again until it's done
and at the beginning for the first element, total is of course 0, value will be 1,
it then adds zero plus one
and in the next step, total is 1 because 0 plus 1, we're returning the new total here and the new value is 2.
So now it adds 1 plus 2 and it returns three as the new total and so on.
And I can show this by printing total
or let's say I print a little text here, total which should be my total, I can of course use addition here
as you learned and then value just to have a nice log here to see what's going on.
If I now hit run, you see the total is 1, the value is 2 because it kind of skips the first step where
the total is 0, it right away starts with the first element and infers that the total has to be
one, the first element in this case, then it gets to the two,
so to this element here, adds it to the total, we get a total of three,
it gets to the next element, it gets a total of six before it gets to the last element,
total of four
and then we're done,
it has no more elements and therefore it returns this overall sum, 10.
So this is what reduce does,
it helps you to shrink down an array, to a single element or a single value and you define how this should
happen, how you want this array to be transformed into a single value, how you want to reduce it to a
number
in this case.